The Fine Arts Museum of Valencia is the second largest art gallery in Spain with works from the 15th to the 19th centuries, where the rooms dedicated to Sorolla and the one dedicated to Francisco de Goya stand out. The rooms of Gothic works are impressive and those of the painters and sculptors Pinazo and Benlliure are very representative of the Valencian school. The museum is also outstanding for its collection of paintings of this style in Spain. Also not to be missed is the Patio del Embajador Vich and the unpublished work of Velazquez. The historic building that houses the museum was originally the San Pio V Seminary School, founded in 1683 by the archbishop of Valencia, Friar Juan Tomas de Rocaberti. It was designed by the architect Juan Bautista Perez Castiel, master builder of the Cathedral. It was built between 1683 and 1744, although part of the church was demolished in 1925. The building has had different uses: Military Academy of Cadets, Charity House, army supply store, Military Hospital, until 1946, when it was chosen to house the Museum of Fine Arts. The artistic tour begins with the selection of the so-called Valencian Primitives, which spans from the end of the 14th century to the beginning of the 16th century, with such representative artists as Alcanyis, Nicolau, Jacomart and Reixach, among others. Also worthy of note is the Valencian school with Joanes, the Ribalta family, Espinosa, Vicente Lopez, Sorolla, Pinazo and others. There are also works by Pintoricchio, Andrea del Sarto, Van Dyck, Velazquez, El Greco, Goya and Murillo. It also has a large collection of drawings and engravings, as well as sculptures, archaeological pieces, architectural fragments and some examples of movable art.


The Patriarca, Real Colegio and the Seminario del Corpus Christi are a church, a seminary and a college respectively. Work on the buildings began in 1586 and finished in 1610. The Patriarca, which has been a National Monument since 1962 and a Monument of Cultural Interest in 2007, is one of the best examples of Renaissance architecture. Of special note in the Patriarca Museum are paintings by Caravaggio, El Greco, Van Der teyden, Benlliure, Ribalta and Pinazo, and also the original manuscript of the posthumous work of Sir Thomas More.


Located in the Cathedral is the Cathedral Museum, which exhibits up to 90 works of different styles, Gothic, Renaissance, Mannerist... Among them are the canvases of Maella and Goya or the panel paintings of Juan de Juanes. The Museum conserves works of art that are not dedicated to worship, including panels, oil paintings, sculptures and pieces of goldsmith's work, as well as housing a basement with archaeological remains.
